There
we go. Okay, again, I would point to page 24 to an
article entitled Galveston's Conflicting Power
Groups by Ed Protz. Ed is the former grant
coordinator for one of those powerful families.
That's the Moody family, and he's written an
article basically on the power groups.
I would also... Draw your attention to page 28 in
the same magazine to an article by Harris Kempner.
Mr. Kempner is another member of one of those
wealthy influential families. And his article is
entitled The Win-Lose Character of an Island
Economy. And he indicates that two major local
issues illustrate how Galveston's economy is
inextricably tied to its geography and
foreshadow a third issue yet to come. So to find out
what that third issue is, read the article.
Obviously, there has been, I don't know about
religious impact. Obviously, religion plays a
large part. But as far as city planning goes, I
wouldn't say it's not played a greater part, as has
political or geographical influences.
Obviously, geographical has been strong because
Galveston's a barrier island. It's a harbor.
That's been the primary trade since day one. Also
because of that, this has been the landing place
for many ethnic groups, Italians, Germans,
Spanish-speaking cultures, just to name a
couple.
Sociological. Not sure I know what that means.
Economic.
Yeah, I think we touched on economics a little bit.
The ports have always been a strong economic
strength of the city.
the other two which are normally mentioned as far
as the strengths the second one which is growing
very rapidly is the tourist industry and some have
predicted that'll be the predominant economic
strength in in the near future like within five
years the third mainstay of of the local economy is
the university of texas medical branch which
employs a great deal of people and has been around
for A long time, probably since the turn of the
century.
Military, there
was an air base here during World War II, but I don't
think that was a major influence. Although one of
the issues today does involve the federal
government. Because they do own a large chunk of
land, over 700 acres to be exact, on the far eastern
part of the island, north of the seawall, which is
called the Fort Crockett spoils area. And that's
where all the spoils go as far as the dredging,
maintenance dredging, of the Houston Ship
Channel, the Galveston Ship Channel, and
Galveston Bay. The issue here is that the city, for
years, probably 20 years ago, made efforts
through Senator Jack Brooks, the Corps of
Engineers, to have that land released to the city.
Land is a very scarce commodity on a barrier
island. And so we will be starting again very soon
another effort to see if we can get those 700 acres
released, probably for residential
development, largely.
What does this last thing mean?
Is that just a note to you or what is that? I think
that's more of a note to me. Okay. No, I think you've
touched on everything. Okay. Okay. Well, I sure do
thank you for your... Your information and your
time. Good luck, and I hope Bob gets it done this
year. Because we're not going to help him out
financially
anymore. And I was one of those who, I may not be his
favorite person, but I said, after a while, you've
got to produce something in order to get more
money. But I like Bob, and we have our differences,
but I wish him great success in this project.